**Introduction**
Paid Search atau Pencarian Berbayar adalah salah satu cara paling efisien untuk mempromosikan produk atau layanan saat ini. Perusahaat berjuang untuk mendapatkan kata kunci terbaik agar dapat muncul pada halaman pencarian pertama Google.

**Problem Statement**
Seorang Marketing manager perusahaan shopping mall ingin mengetahui keefektifan campaign yang telah dilakukan untuk menentukan iklan mana yang layak untuk diskalakan dan dioptimalkan, juga untuk menentukan strategi marketing dan biaya pemasaran yang efisien kedepannya.

**Goals**
Membuat dashboard yang akan membantu manager membuat keputusan.
Memvisualisasikan hasil olahan data.
Dashboard User Flow

**Data Description**
Ad Group: category of the advert (coupon/promo code, desktop ad/mobile ad etc…)

Month: month of the campaign. The campaign started in July 2021 and ended in November 2021.

Impressions: metric used in digital marketing to quantify the number of digital views or engagements of an advertisement. Impressions are also referred to as an “ad view.

Clicks: how many clicks the ad received

CTR: Click Through Rate, the number of clicks that your ad receives divided by the number of times your ad is shown: clicks ÷ impressions = CTR.

Conversions: Conversions are those valuable actions that users take on your site like buying something or filling in a form. The success can be measured in the number of conversions generated at a particular cost.

Conv Rate: Conversion Rate. It is the percentage of people who convert after clicking on your ads. Depending on your goals, a conversion may mean they make a purchase, complete a contact form, request a free trial, or take another desired action.

Cost: Cost is the actual money spent by the advertiser (the “shop”) for the related ad group.

CPC: Cost Per Click, it is the cost of the specific ads divided by the click. It is one of the metrics used to evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign in terms of ROI (Return on Investment), therefore a low or decreasing CPC is better than a high or increasing CPC.

Revenue: Revenue is the total amount of income generated by advertisment.

Sale Amount: Sale Amount for this dataset means the quantity of sales derived by the single ad group.

P&L: Profit and Loss, based on the formula Revenue — Cost. For this dataset mesaures the profit of the specific Ad Group.

**Kesimpulan**
Campaign yang dilakukan masih belum efektif karena Mall hampir selalu mengalami loss, perlu dilakukan evaluasi pada iklan yang telah dilakukan untuk mengetahui apa penyebabnya. Ada beberapa kemungkinan mengapa kinerja iklan belum efektif, misalnya iklan tidak sesuai dengan target pasar, kualitas iklan kurang baik, atau adanya inkonsistensi antara pesan dan tampilan iklan.
